SELinux Tools (setools), version 2.3
by Tresys Technology, LLC
(selinux@tresys.com, www.tresys.com/selinux)

January 23, 2006

BUILDING AND INSTALLING NOTES AND WARNINGS

We have built and used this package on several distributions with and
without SELinux (see TESTING INFORMATION in KNOWN-BUGS file). These
directions should work well on most distributions, but you should be
familiar with the documentation for the distribution you are using.

The directory structure of the Setools distribution is as follows:

apol            The policy analysis tool
awish           Our customized version of the Tk wish interpreter
docs-src	Repository for generating setools documentation.
libapol         The main policy analysis library
libseaudit	The seaudit support library 
libsefs		The selinux filesystem database library	
seaudit 	The audit log analysis tools (seaudit and seaudit-report)
secmds		The setools command line tools (seinfo, sesearch, 
		findcon, replcon, indexcon, searchcon)
sediff 		The semantic policy difference tool (command-line and GUI)
sechecker	The modular policy checking tool
packages	External packages required by setools

REQUIREMENTS

TCL/TK VERSION AND INSTALL: Before building you will need to ensure that you
have Tcl/Tk 8.4 or higher installed with BWidgets. Generally, modern Linux
distributions have appropriate versions of Tcl and Tk. Usually the BWidgets
package IS NOT installed by default, however. If you do not have BWidgets
installed it is available in the packages subdirectory of the Setools
distribution. It can be installed by going to the packages subdirectory and
typing "make install". If you have BWidgets installed make certain that it
is a compatible version. See BWIDGETS VERSIONS below for more information.

LIBSELINUX: In order to successfully build and install the file context tools 
that come with the secmds package onto your system, as well as include the 
file context interface in apol, you will need to install libselinux version 
1.18 or higher and the associated headers. A package may be available for 
your distribution - on Fedora Core it is called libselinux-devel. 

If you DO NOT wish to install libselinux, make sure to set the USE_LIBSELINUX 
variable in the top-level Makefile to 0, which is set to 1 by default. Setting 
this variable to 0 will only build seinfo and sesearch, as well as exclude the 
file context interface from apol.

GTK: In order to successfully install seaudit and sediffx onto your system you 
will need libglade and GTK2.0 or above installed. GTK2.4 is specifically required 
for Fedora Core 1 systems. It also requires the pkg-config program to be installed 
before you can build. 

INSTALLATION

These are the instructions for building and installing all of the Setools.
You can also build and install portions of the package including only those
tools and libraries that do not require a GUI and X support. See "make help"
for more information or for a complete list of make targets.

BUILDING AND INSTALL

Short version: make all; su root; make install; make install-policy  

Long version follows:

0. Review the ./setools/Makefile. The following is information on important
variables in this Makefile.

	- TCLVER : When running 'make', the TCLVER should be automatically set 
	      for your installation of Tcl/Tk. 
	- TCL_LIBS : This variable is commented out by default and should 
	      only be changed if your Tcl/Tk libraries cannot be located
	      using the default search path.
	- DEBUG : If set to 0, this will create an optimized version
	- DYNAMIC : If set to 1, this will dynamically link with internal 
	     libraries.
	- USE_LIBSELINUX : This determines:
	     	1. whether libapol uses libselinux to find the default policies. 
		   NOTE: libselinux must be version 1.18 or greater.
		2. whether libsefs will be built into apol, and awish. 
	   Useful to create a version of apol that runs on non-selinux machines. 
	   Set this to 0 for non-selinux machines.
      
Build and install tools:  If you want to install all tools, just 
type "make install" to build and install everything.  Type "make help" 
to see options to build individual pieces, for example to install just 
apol.

Most errors result from improperly installed Tcl/Tk, BWidgets, or the 
above libapol files.  
   
Send comments/questions to selinux@tresys.com.

DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT INSTALLATION

Support for development using the setools libraries can be installed using the 
'make install-dev' target. This target installs the headers and libraries for 
libapol, and libseaudit. This is provided as a convenience to third 
party developers, but is not otherwise supported. These libraries are in 
constant development and interfaces can and will change, sometimes 
substantially.

INSTALLING SEAUDIT-REPORT AS A LOGWATCH PLUG-IN

Support for installing seaudit-report as a plug-in to the LogWatch program,
which comes standard with Red Hat Linux, is provided using the 
'make install-logwatch-files' target. This target installs and labels the 
configuration files for LogWatch necessary for having seaudit-report run as 
a service to LogWatch. These configuration files are provided with the setools
source distribution and are located in the seaudit subdirectory. They are as 
follows:
	- seaudit-report-group.conf: the logfile group configuration file
	- seaudit-report-service.conf: the service filter config file
	- seaudit-report-service: the service filter script
	
Integrating the seaudit-report tool with LogWatch can provide an 
effective IDS solution by automating customized audit reports and having them 
e-mailed to a specific recipient(s) for further analysis. You should make sure 
that the LogWatch program is installed, before proceeding with using this 
install target. 

BWIDGETS VERSIONS

The BWidgets package can be found at 
http://sourceforge.net/projects/tcllib. There are some 
incompatibilities with different versions of Tcl/Tk and BWidgets that 
can cause critical runtime errors. You will not be able to run any of 
the tools if you are using incompatible versions of Tcl/Tk and 
BWidgets. Correct versions of BWidgets for the Tcl/Tk version you are 
using are:

	- Tcl/Tk 8.4 - BWidget-1.7.0

NOTE: You may run the tools using a pre-1.7.0 BWidgets package, 
however, you may experience problems. These tools have been tested 
using the latest BWidgets packages starting from version 1.7.0. 
See TESTING INFORMATION in KNOWN-BUGS for more information on what 
platforms and configurations these tools have been tested against.

Once you  have downloaded the correct version of BWidgets, then you 
can install it in your TCL directory. For instance, if you have 
Tcl installed in the /usr/lib directory, then you should install the 
BWidgets directory to /usr/lib/tcl8.4/.
